What is JAVA?
What are the features of JAVA?
How does Java enable high performance?
Name the Java IDE’s?
What do you mean by Constructor?
What is meant by the Local variable and the Instance variable?
What is a Class?
What is an Object?
What are the OOPs concepts?
What is Inheritance?
What is Encapsulation?
What is Polymorphism?
What is meant by Method Overriding?
What is meant by Overloading?
What is meant by Interface?
What is meant by Abstract class?
Difference between Array and Array List.
Difference between String, String Builder, and String Buffer.
Explain about Public and Private access specifiers.
Difference between Default and Protected access specifiers.
Difference between HashMap and HashTable.
Difference between HashSet and TreeSet.
Difference between Abstract class and Interface.
What are all the Classes and Interfaces that are available in the collections?
What is meant by Ordered and Sorted in collections?
Explain the different lists available in the collection.
Explain about Set and their types in a collection.
Explain about Map and its types.
Explain the Priority Queue.
What is meant by Exception?
What are the types of Exceptions?
What are the different ways to handle exceptions?
What are the advantages of Exception handling?
What are the Exception handling keywords in Java?
Explain about Exception Propagation.
What is the final keyword in Java?
What is a Thread?
How do you make a thread in Java?
Explain about join () method.
What does the yield method of the Thread class do?
Explain about wait () method.
Difference between notify() method and notifyAll() method in Java.
How to stop a thread in java? Explain about sleep () method in a thread?
When to use the Runnable interface Vs Thread class in Java?
Difference between start() and run() method of thread class.
What is Multi-threading?
Explain the thread life cycle in Java.
What is Synchronization?
What is the disadvantage of Synchronization?
What is meant by Serialization?
What is the purpose of a transient variable?
Which methods are used during the Serialization and Deserialization process?
What is the purpose of a Volatile Variable?
Difference between Serialization and Deserialization in Java.
What is SerialVersionUID?
